The word is "Dengtotokota" in Tibetan. "Dengtotokota" is a Tibetan word, which means, again, it is
confidence.
So that means, now you recognize, you also appreciate, recognize the atrocity or you had great
Now you've built up the great fearless confidence, unshakable confidence and going to liberate
everything as it comes.
Going to take care of everything, not going to crush us by the delusions.
We are going to crush you or we are going to liberate everything. How are we going to liberate?
We need confidence, confidence under our will, will. We need confidence in the will.
Everything is now ruppa, ruppa status. All the display is ruppas. Everything is ruppa.
When you have that confidence, that fearless, unshakable confidence, then whatever we go through,
we are going to take care of that within that nature state without hurting our self.
That is known as "Dengtotokya". "Dengtotokya". This "Dengtotokya" we mentioned yesterday, many
times.
This is all, of course, all the teachings mentioned again and again.
This is what, again, this "Dengtotokya" is liberating. It is mainly in, of course, both meditations
state, both meditations state.
Both we have to be liberated. What we are liberating, actually? The emotions or the disturbance or
the grassroots.
And also this liberating and delusion, both are not in ruppa.
Ruppa state is, or the zoopi nature of the mind is free from the liberation, free from the
delusions.
This liberation and delusion, liberated delusions, all is within the territory of the conceptions.
What we are liberating is fine. The nature of zoopi is free from that, free from that.
So now, when we are deluded, when we are engaged in the world, or when we are practicing meditating
,
generally there is two kind of like handiness that we can occur, or counter to occur.
During the meditation, the emotions can arise, all the different emotions arise.
Emotions can arise, such as we went yesterday, the great master mentioned too, Shyapa Soronara
mentioned too.
The experience of the blissfulness, experience of the clarity, experience of the neutral thoughts.
Those are also the spirit of the thought, emotions.
The emotions are not just only this thought, emotion generally in the zoopi teaching says there is
at least two emotional thoughts can come.
Smooth experience and rough experience.
Smooth experience of the feeling, smooth experience of the clarity or the blissfulness,
or the blissfulness of course is the blissfulness, but smooth experience, something related with
smooth experience,
also there is rough experience comes, rough experience.
And then clarity experience also has smooth aspect and rough aspect.
And neutral thought also has rough experience and smooth experience.
So there is those great masters in the teaching said there is true experience that we can go
through.
And generally speaking, or however we are speaking, what is this experience? Experience whether it
is smooth, whether it is rough, rough, both are good.
Means we are meditating, it is working, something.
But however, when it is reflected to our senses, it has different effect.
Smooth and rough, rough, smooth experience such as the bliss level is the blissfulness.
It is so nice, something that we want, wanting, wanting or wish to have that.
That is smooth experience.
And rough experience is suddenly get emotional, rolling course of the emotions, rolling course, or
heavy kind of emotion.
It is so sad, suffering, suddenly kept sad, suffering.
All kind of will have got more emotion, the anger, or something.
No reason, something and a deep rest, kind of all that things comes.
Those are also known as the like rough experiences.
It is all blissful experience, smooth experience and bliss experiences.
Both are display of the mind.
And both are part of the delusions.
And what we do, what we have to do?
This and then second is, second is clarity.
Clarity experiences are kind of soft clarity experience, such as very clear, brilliant.
Mind is become kind of very open and relaxed.
And your kind of intelligence looks like also really kind of shiny, more smart, more intelligent,
more kind of like words, what you use become more kind of clear, strong, looks like so nice and all
these things.
Those are known as clarity experiences.
And then both stronger ones, even see through the walls or see some things.
All kind of like detected so many kind of like things that before we don't know,
but now it's coming up more in sport like, sport like those kind of smooth experience.
And the rough experiences become again, more emotions, more rough and seeing things kind of clearly
, a little bit bit,
but this is more irritating now, give more irritation, more kind of become more sensible.
You picking up so many unnecessary things, picking up that by the eye, by the ear, by the nose,
by tongue, by the body, kind of picking up a lot of things unnecessary
and become attached, clinging onto that and become disturbance, disturbance.
Those are known as rough experience of clarity.
And then smoother experience of the neutral, neutral or no thought, then become more calm, more
peaceful.
Kind of more, your mind is become a little bit stable, more stable, stable and kind of also you
like to meditate.
Kind of like become very, kind of very slow and very, very kind of subtle things.
Those are the smooth experience of the neutral.
And then also rough thoughts such as then, as more kind of dullness.
More, before you kind of know a lot of things, quite okay this day, but now suddenly looks like
mind is become more dull, more kind of poggy
or more sleepy, more kind of like heavy, heavy, these things.
Those are known as rough experience of the simple.
Now all of this, what is all this is?
As I said in the teaching, it is all good sign.
Good sign, whether it is rough, whether it is smooth, your practice is working.
But that is really good.
But however, if we code with these emotions, then we are now falling back to the samsara
or going to fall back to samsara.
Therefore, what we have to do?
With great confidence, you already know the will,
you already know like what is rappa is.
You also see rappa is embodying everything.
Rappa cannot be diluted or this primordial person or rappa cannot be diluted by object, by subject.
No matter what is happening, it is not going to change anything.
Re-spend your confidence, re-spend our understanding of zokki teaches.
Zokki teaches, then we are going.
This is the time we are going to play technique of that liberated tells.
Why are we going to liberate all those delusions?
Whatever it is, we are not going to hold and code with that.
That is known as liberating.
Thank you.